..
  Copyright 2014  Fraser Tweedale

  This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
  International License. To view a copy of this license, visit
  http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.

LibrePlanet Brisbane: Thursday 11 December 2014
===============================================

News
----

Local news:

* Linux Australia council elections

  * LA are stewards of linux.conf.au, pyconau, PHP conf au.

  * Nominations are needed and close on Wednesday 17th December.

  * http://lists.linux.org.au/pipermail/announce/2014-December/000192.html

* OSDClub AGM

  * AGM was held on November 5th (during OSDC)

  * Subject to special resolution, OSDClub will wind up and donate
    assets to LA.

  * Minutes: https://securityprotected.net/lists/archives/announce.osdc.com.au/2014-November/000070.html


Initiatives:

* *Let's Encrypt* initiative

  * CA initiative and new "ACME" protocol for domain validation and certificate issuance

  * Partnership of Mozilla, Akamai (CDN), Cisco, EFF, IdenTrust

  * Launching in 2015; developer preview now.

  * https://letsencrypt.org/

  * EFF announcement: https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2014/11/certificate-authority-encrypt-entire-web

  * https://github.com/letsencrypt

* copyleft.org

  * Ongoing public project of Software Freedom Conservancy and FSF

  * Comprehensive tutorial and guide to copyleft and GPL

  * http://copyleft.org/

  * Announcement: http://www.fsf.org/news/software-freedom-conservancy-and-free-software-foundation-announce-copyleft.org

* Matthew Garrett joins FSF board

  * http://www.fsf.org/news/matthew-garrett-joins-free-software-foundation-board-of-directors

* Librem 15: crowd-funded libre laptop

  * A Free and Open Source Laptop That Respects Your Essential Freedoms

  * Crowdfunding campaign

  * High specs; looks pretty nice

  * NVIDIA GPU (Nouveau driver)

  * https://www.crowdsupply.com/purism/librem-laptop

  * Some non-free BIOS and firmware blobs

  * See also *Novena*, Bunnie's crowd-funded libre laptop

* FSF commences review of High Priority Projects list

  * Announcement: http://www.fsf.org/news/fsf-commences-review-of-high-priority-free-software-projects-list-your-input-is-needed

  * We need your input! Send your suggestions of projects to hpp-feedback@gnu.org

  * Will publish a substantially revised list and an analysis before LibrePlanet 2015

  * Current list: https://www.fsf.org/campaigns/priority-projects/


Events:

* SeaGL conference videos

  * Seattle GNU/Linux conference

  * Videos at http://www.youtube.com/channel/UCHm0HuuKPWBglv-qPC8kkUw

  * Karen Sandler keynote, *Freedom in My Heart and Everywhere: Lessons from a Cyborg Lawyer*

    * Karen is co-host of the *Free as in Freedom* podcast, with
      Bradley Kuhn.  http://faif.us/

  * Lots of topics: security, programming, ops, civic/humanitarian projects and more.

* GIS Day 2014

  * Geographic Information Systems (GIS) event held at
    Queensland University of Technology on 19th November

  * Some presentations involved free software:

    * QGIS: https://qgis.org/en/site/

    * FOSS4G: https://github.com/matthew-shaw/FOSS4G

    * OSGeo Foundation: http://www.osgeo.org/

  * Program and slides: http://www.gisday.com.au/event/program/
    (links to slides are among the speaker bios)

* GovHack 2015 announced

  * Annual open data hackfest weekend; national event involving all levels of govt

  * New Zealand is on board for 2015!

  * Competition; prizes!

  * Save the dates: July 3-5 2015

  * More info: http://www.govhack.org/


Releases:

* GnuPG 2.1 released

  * Free OpenPGP implementation for email privacy

  * Enhancements:

    * elliptic curve (ECC) support

    * improved key generation dialog

    * revocation certs created by default

    * gpg-agent now used for all private key operations

    * more efficient key database

  * Full details: https://gnupg.org/faq/whats-new-in-2.1.html

* GNOME 3 now on FreeBSD

  * GNOME 3.14 has arrived in ports tree and official pkg(8) repos.

  * https://www.freshports.org/x11/gnome3/

* gNewSense 4 alpha 1 released

  * Fully free OS based on Debian 7.0 "Wheezy"

  * Announcement: https://lists.nongnu.org/archive/html/gnewsense-dev/2014-12/msg00000.html

* Trisquel 7 released

  * Fully free GNU+Linux distro based on Ubuntu

  * Announcement: https://trisquel.info/en/trisquel-70-lts-belenos

  * Long Term Support (LTS) release


Open Source Developers' Conference recap
----------------------------------------

* OSDC 2014 was held 4th - 7th November at Griffith University, Gold
  Coast.

* Videos of presentations are available at
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCjmvm9iW5ERNaUcA5FlWbvg and
  http://mirror.linux.org.au/osdc/osdc2014/

* Five must-watch presentations for free software advocates (as
  decided by Fraser and Clinton) are, in no particular order:

  - *Code for America* by Lynn Fine (keynote)

    - Abstract: http://2014.osdc.com.au/news/third-keynote-speaker-lynn-fine

    - Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I7JCYmbiB7Q

  - *The State of Full Disk Encryption* by Hugh Davenport

    - Abstract: http://2014.osdc.com.au/presentation/1083-state-full-disk-encryption

    - Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T4mp_ejER9k

  - *At The Intersection* by Maia Sauren

    - Abstract: http://2014.osdc.com.au/presentation/945-intersection

    - Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AfMiCAKpB90

  - *Embrace the Impact: Minimising your (insecure) online footprint*
    by Peter Mosmans

    - Abstract: http://2014.osdc.com.au/presentation/1250-embrace-impact-minimizing-your-insecure-online-footprint

    - Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H5uWHw8coto

  - *Making Education run like Open Source* by William Billingsley

    - Abstract: http://2014.osdc.com.au/presentation/829-making-education-run-open-source

    - Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SULsMJCNAYM
